# PRuF
Blockchain powered decentralized asset registry
0.7.0

Your possessions and assets,  provably and privately yours, with a title on the blockchain.

**‘Registration’ as it is known today can erode privacy and creates ancillary risks from private or public entities. 

PRüF private-provenance eliminates this risk, even for the most sensitive of assets.
PRüF private-provenance allows records to be stored such that ONLY the true owner can prove ownership. When using the private-provenance feature, Names or identifying information cannot be looked up in the system, cross referenced, or tracked. Additionally, items cannot be looked up in the PRüF protocol without the actual item serial number. For additional privacy, a secret can also be included in the item record, creating a stealth listing, so that only the holder of the secret can look up the item at all.
With PRüF private-provenance, sensitive information is not actually stored at all.  A cryptographic derivative “shadow” of the original data is stored, but it is impossible to recreate the original data from this shadow, because the original information is destroyed. Sensitive information is not only encrypted, it is simply not stored at all.  
A rights holder of a PRüF trust-enabled asset can easily prove ownership by demonstrating that their (name, ID, optional) and secret creates the same key as was stored previously. Only this specific combination of information, known only to the rights holder, can produce this key.

**It can be difficult for private buyers or resellers to be sure if an item being sold is genuinely owned by the seller. 
Existing systems facilitate the resale of stolen goods.

PRüF Secure-Transfer allows a buyer to be ensure that the person in front of them is the actual owner of the item being sold. Using Secure-Transfer also protects the buyer by documenting the release of rights to the item, as well as the (optional) immediate transfer of rights on the blockchain to the buyer. PRüF Private-Provenance reduces the incentive for property theft, as stolen items can be marked as stolen or lost once their absence is noted by the rights holder. This makes it very difficult to sell the stolen or lost item, because a free cursory search on any PRüF portal will indicate that item is lost or reported stolen.

**If an item is lost or stolen, PRüF gives you options.

If a PRüF trust-enabled asset goes missing, it can be marked by the rights holder as being lost or stolen, and optionally linked with a mechanism for a reward if returned (and facilitating securely contacting the rights holder*.) PRüF trust-enabled assets are difficult to sell if stolen, because checking if an item is lost or stolen is easy, fast, and free. It will become part of reasonable due diligence by dealers, pawn shops, or private buyers to support PRüF trust-enabled assets.
The rights holder to a lost or stolen item can register return instructions with a PRüF boomerang return service provider*. The lost or stolen status and the reward will then be visible for anyone checking the provenance of the item after finding it, or before purchasing it from someone else. This would make stolen items very difficult to sell (except perhaps for a fraction of the reward money in certain circles). In any case, the resale value would be lowered substantially, and thieves or finders would be required to expose their identities to claim any reward.
Alternatively, a rights holder could set a price on the item. A finder could then pay that price, on-chain, and have the asset ownership transferred to them through an escrow contract on the PRüF platform. 
Any special terms of recovery can be made available on the items PRüF listing, so that the owner can tailor the conditions of return for the best possible outcome.
You could, of course, also choose to do nothing, discard the item, or mark it as transferred in cases where that was the best outcome.

**If recovered, stolen items today will often not be returned to the owner without adequate documentation of ownership. 

Even in cases of theft where the item has been located, the possessor is usually assumed to be the owner unless additional proof is available.
PRüF private-provenance allows a rights holder to prove the legitimacy of their claim, tracing the possession of the item back to a specific point in time or the original sale, irrefutably. 

**Tokenized Real-world Assets

Acting as a “title” to everyday goods, PRüF enabled tokenized assets allow the protections of title to extend to all of your personal valuables. PRüF private-provenance allows rights holders to securely hold, transfer, sell, and collateralize their possessions without opening their lives to scrutiny.  
In addition to everyday items, collectibles, heirlooms, and capital goods under personal ownership, PRüF enabled tokenized assets open up a multitude of options for discreet and protected asset ownership. In this model, major assets would be held and managed by a holding company. The executive advantages of ownership, without risk exposure, could be controlled by the token. This could range from real properties, boats, aircraft, and vehicles, to fixed fungible assets, such as a safe deposit box of gold coins. 

**A truly democratized, local-first global maketSpace with PRüF

PRüF enabled tokenized assets are linkable to automatically generated or customized item profiles. These profiles can include manufacturer provided information for mass produced items, or artisan profiles and introductions for hand crafted goods. Each PRüF enabled item bears a unique identifier, that can be (optionally) tied to this profile. 
For mass produced goods, this information would likely include model number or series, documentation or manuals, instructional materials, feature demonstrations, etc.  For artisanal goods, the profile could link back to the artist, other work she has available, a wikipedia page, or other information. In any case, this link can be represented on a QR code or an NFC tag that can then be attached to or placed alongside the item as a sticker, tag, or label—or even built into the item in the case of RFID. The PRüF data tag indicates that there may be information available about the item, and that it will be very difficult to sell (or use in some cases) if stolen. 
PRüF enabled tokenized assets align perfectly as an opportunity for partnering with a marketplace integrator, to create a local-first global marketplace. Such an integrator would have the opportunity of blending existing industry-scale supply chains with a local marketplace of pre-owned and artisanal items, leveraging the advantages of proximity marketing with deep supply and distribution backing. With effortless point of exposure shopping and deep brand integration possibilities, we expect this opportunity to be an attractive option for e-commerce at scale.

**What this might look like

By scanning a PRüF data tag (or even just looking at it, with AR glasses) data that the owner may have chosen to make public can be displayed. If the owner does not wish the tag to link to anything, something like “private” might be displayed instead.  If the item is for sale, price and sale information will be displayed along with the item info, giving the viewer the option to immediately enter into a purchase escrow to reserve the item if that option has been made available by the seller.
In this way, with only cheap (pennies for 100) to print QR codes, any seller or private individual can effortlessly “list” their items on a global marketplace with a strong local-first aspect. When examining an item that is not for sale, a potential buyer could search “similar items near me” for example, and local listings for similar or identical items could be provided as options, backed up by listings from major suppliers and distributors. For the system to maximize throughput, local listings would be given top visibility so that users would be incentivised to provide “advertising” by displaying and listing their items in the system. This alignment of incentives allows for the integration of a local-first marketplace with global reach and pre-established distribution chains.

**PRüF is more than a product, SAAS provider, or a blockchain company.

PRüF was designed from the ground up as an ecosystem, and is designed to be upgradeable, scaleable, persistent, and to eventually operate autonomously without oversight. 
The core values exemplified by PRüF are: 
Data Sovereignty – you should be in control of your data and how it is used.  PRüF does not collect sensitive data from its users. Whenever personally identifying information is required, it will be used for computations on the users own computer, and only the irreversible hashes made from that data will be stored on the blockchain.
Safety - PRüF systems are engineered so that they will not inadvertently or intentionally compromise the security, privacy, or agency of users. PRüF will protect the privacy of its users by collecting the minimum information required to provide the desired service, and clearly informing users of actions that may put their privacy, security, or agency at risk.
Personal Agency – PRüF strives to increase the freedom of its users from the external application of coercive force, whether financial, physical, or social.
Sustainability – As a blockchain based service, PRüF is designed to stand the test of time. The PRüF protocol is engineered to be flexible, upgradeable, modular, and persistent. PRüF will seek opportunities to incentivise
behaviors that enhance the sustainable uses of PRüF, its applications, and the natural environment in which we all share.
Do No Harm – The developers of PRüF are committed to building a tool that has a positive impact on society. Many of the design decisions built into the PRüF protocol are designed to facilitate the positive uses of PRüF and discourage bad actors. The PrüF ethos is our commitment to ensuring that PRüF will not be used to deprive others of their rights, freedom, or property.

Since PRüF does not hold any sensitive data, PRüF cannot be forced to divulge customer records, names, or information about their assets. Our customers secrets are protected by entropy and mathematics, not passwords, locks, and doors.
PRüF, as a smart contract infrastructure, can continue to operate indefinitely without maintenance, oversight, or external control. It is designed to eventually be completely autonomous. Payments are handled autonomously, on chain, as are all critical data functions. Some enhanced functionality utilizes IPFS, so this functionality might become unavailable if the core system were abandoned...but the main functionality would continue, unimpeded. 
The PRüF ecosystem will consist of the PRüF foundation, Independent business units (Asset Class operators), the developer community, and, of course, PRüF asset rights holders. After initial launch and beta phase testing,  PRüF will be fully open sourced and community development opened to all. 
A large but ultimately limited number of Asset Class utility tokens will be distributed.
Asset Class business unit operators will be able to set and collect fees from asset management services, transfers, inscriptions, and value added services desired by the customers they serve. Pricing for these services may vary widely, from negligible for basic services for common goods, on up to significant fees for bespoke management and legal support in more complex high value asset management scenarios.
With no smart contract development required and simple, open source templates using the popular REACT web framework, each Asset Class Token represents a turnkey backend solution with minimal front end customization requirement to be a PRüF service provider in a given asset class.  Asset Class Tokens are like a key, used to control the pricing, payment, contract authorization, and namespace for their Asset Class, so that searches and lookups of their particular focus will lead to their online presence and customer interface.
Each Asset Class (AC) token is minted in a root class:  for example, ‘bicycles in Pakistan’ might be one AC, minted in the root class ‘global bicycles’, while ‘bicycles in the USA’ is another AC, in the same root. Asset rights holders can move between AC’s that they are qualified to be in by ownership, geography, or other factors, but any non-secret asset can be looked up globally on the system to discover its status.
PRüF will start with a few hand picked partners in just a few of the most critical, pain point filled asset classifications. Using our web3 templates and the PRüF smart contract infrastructure, each partner will build out their web presence as an Asset Class Token holder. 
As each type and region of asset will face unique challenges and customer needs, this ecosystem approach provides a marketplace of ideas and methods, encouraging innovation while maintaining an unfragmented system of decentralized asset provenance. Maintaining a cohesive universal repository for all providers allows everyone to benefit from network effects and protects the PRüF ecosystem from the potentially negative trust effects of multiplicity (after all, if this one says stolen, and this one says you are the owner...who should I trust?). Providing a ready-for-customization deployment with prebuilt infrastructure gives PRüF and PRüF partners a strong first mover advantage in every potential market segment. 
All assets are represented by lightly augmented ERC20 compliant tokens. In some asset classes, operators will mint new asset tokens into the controlling contract. This (custodial) model is ideal when an asset class must be supervised by trusted agents. In this model, agents provide a necessary or convenience enhancing trust function. In other asset classes, asset tokens will be minted to the customers wallet, under their full control. (non-custodial). Customers may move their asset between qualifying custodial and non-custodial asset classes within the same root asset class. The use of this dual model allows accommodation of the wide variety of needs that may be encountered in such a diverse global market.
In the event that a customer loses control of their Asset token, it may optionally be recoverable by the use of a predetermined secret, re-minted into a new wallet under their control. This feature is still experimental, but we expect to make it an option to customers to reduce the otherwise brittle nature of dealing with the blockchain. Online wallets and other token securing mechanisms will doubtlessly be made available by 3rd parties as the ecosystem grows.
In the PRüF ecosystem, an asset can be marked as nontransferable, transferrable, in escrow, discarded (recyclable), transferred, lost, stolen, and other statuses.  This status is available quickly, freely, and securely anywhere internet access is possible. These statuses govern the mobility and mutability of the asset record, and inform potential buyers, sellers, and owners of assets as to the current status of asset provenance and ownership.
There is an incentive built into PRüF to encourage re-sharing of still-useful discarded items, by incentivising the donation of a disused asset with a rebate on initial inscription costs. Recycling of assets in the PRüF ecosystem encourages the re-homing of items in the real world, reducing waste, environmental footprint, and atmospheric carbon production.
The PrüF contract infrastructure is modular, upgradeable, and security-forward. PrüF data manipulation and storage functions are handled by contracts that can only be written to by other trusted PrüF contracts. Edge interfaces are handled on a once-removed basis, so that all interactions with data are constrained to expected and acceptable parameters, even if one contract could be manipulated into an unanticipated state. Payable surfaces are limited to a safe-withdraw payment function which implements a pull-payment pattern. Function calls in PrüF contracts are unidirectional, with no stateful calls into previously called contracts or functions within a transaction, and the checks-effects-interactions pattern is universally implemented.

**The core PrüF protocol tracks 10 critical data points for each asset on the system.

1: The cryptographically derived “shadow” for the item itself 
2: The cryptographically derived “shadow” for the rights holder 
3: The status of the asset record, transferrable, nontransferable, etc.
4: Then number of times, if any, that a record has been edited (only applies to certain asset classes that may have administrative oversight)
5: the asset class that the asset is inscribed in
6,7: A decrement only counter, and its starting point. This could be used to track consumables or remaining service life, for instance.
9: An updatable pointer to an optional IPFS file, typically A json data structure including pointers to media, information, and files. (description, photo, etc) 
9: An immutable pointer to an optional IPFS file, typically A json data structure including pointers to media, information, and files. This might typically be used for certifications of authenticity, valuations, documentation, and other persistent information.
10: The number of times that the asset has been transferred.

In addition to these 10 data points, additional data is stored on chain as needed to accomplish other use case specific business logic. Authorized modular contracts handle such ancillary functions, and connect to the core PrüF infrastructure through an intermediary interface manger contract. These contracts can be written for a variety of general or very specific use cases, and may include auctions, contests, various kinds of structured sales, escrows, asset collateralized loans, surety bonds, or other instruments.
For lightweight, low granular value applications, PrüF utilizes a much lighter footprint model which can have the same, or even expanded functionality by leveraging IPFS as a primary storage medium. This can minimize blockchain related expenses and allow for zero marginal cost operation for less critical asset classes.
Manufacturers can create, in bulk, “light assets” which are preregistered on the blockchain at a very low cost, facilitation onboarding of new items and providing an opportunity for enhanced customer interactions, including customer education and brand awareness, service agreements, warranty registration and service, technical support, additional sales opportunities, etc.
With flexible, extensible architecture and turnkey integration, PrüF brings the empowerment and advantages of the blockchain to a variety of B2B and consumer facing applications without any blockchain programming, and with a simple set of tools that enable positive transactional asset control on a variety of scales.

